toronto native KEVIN MOON's musical background included important moments 
buggin' out to michael jackson and david bowie as a child, then moving on 
to after-school breakdance classes. by the late 1980s, kevin discovered 
the glories of hip-hop, and at the tender age of 13, began to buy hip-hop 
records of all kinds.  by 1992 he was an accomplished hip-hop DJ.  an 
uncomfortable year spent in florida allowed him to finally sit and listen 
to his records with a deeper appreciation, which eventually inspired him 
to create his own music.  with his return to toronto in 1994, kevin 
digested the jungle phenomenon of toronto's strong rave scene, 
immediately latching onto the "dark" style (esp. the trademark REINFORCED 
sound, which combined experimentation with a jazz attitude), while taking 
in the deep influence of original jazzmen such as THELONIUS MONK, MILT 
JACKSON, SUN RA and HERBIE HANCOCK, and the expanded ---- of new 
jazz-inspired artists such as TEK 9 and LUKE VIBERT (whose early PLUG 
material opened his eyes to new possibilities).  he threw himself 
earnestly into music production and began to make jungle, drum&bass, and 
hip-hop-influenced music that was interesting enough to grab the 
attention of PAUL E. LOPES, whose WHA?NAUT recordings recently released 2 
full records of kevin's material.

kevin hopes to create music that can utilize electricity to transmit 
emotions, whether in a more philosophical sense or in a literal sense, 
invigorating dead spirits through tonal communication.
kevin's performance will include several pieces from his vinyl releases, 
and other music composed specifically for this event.  he will be joined 
by his own mission specialist, DJ FRANKIE GUNNS (aka RYAN STEVENS), a 
fellow torontonian devoted to innovative drum&bass, especially the sounds 
of london's REINFORCED label.

