a new jersey native, MORGAN GEIST has finally made a name for himself over
the last few months, spreading his funk-flavored electronic dance jams
across the globe, with a high-profile album (the driving memoirs) on the
UK's label CLEAR, a compilation of his self-released environ EPs for the
UK's PHONO label (name of comp? a separate space?), and two 12's for
FRAGMENTED.  along with this have been profiles in slick magazines such as
THE WIRE, URB, and MAGIC FEET; all of which were encouraged by morgan's
extensive (and under-attended) tour of europe last fall.  but morgan honed
his compositional skills here in ohio, while attending oberlin university
near cleveland.  here, he absorbed the influence of detroit music (among
other things), and began to make demos, one of which fell into the hands
of DAN CURTIN.  dan went on to give morgan his first chance on his
METAMORPHIC label.  morgan's connection to ele_mental began at about the
same time, with contributions to the FUSION series of tape compilations
put together by charles noel of the 21/22 corporation.  this friendship
grew in several directions, most notably with like-minded TITONTON, for
whom he did his first live performance at the INTIMATE rave in 1997, and
with whom he went on to create the "titonton & morgan" ep for PHONO.  a
lost track from that collaboration now appears on the "trace elements 3"
vinyl compilation by the 21/22 corporation, and morgan's future work
includes the revival of his long-neglected ENVIRON label, and more.  his
DJ set will in some ways be an educational journey through morgan's own
preoccupations; from deep techno to deep house, all the way to funk and
synth disco.   
