KEVIN KENNEDY's musical history began in the early '80s, in the 4th grade,
when he began to play the clarinet and learn how to read music.  His
interest in electronic music was the result of the music he heard all
around him, especially the sounds of Electro and Hip-hop, and later, House
and Techno.  Combined with an appreciation of the heaviness of LED
ZEPPELIN, the multiple personas of DAVID BOWIE, the experimentation of
SONIC YOUTH, and the --- of reggae, Kevin's musical journey led him to
join the eclectic Funk/Hip-hop/Fusion band THE POETS OF HERESY, which was
founded in 1989.  Meanwhile, his exposure to the newer electronic dance
music of bands such as LFO caused him to re-examine Techno, and along with
the influence of Columbus' BODY RELEASE (Todd Sines, Mike Czebczek,
Titonton Duvante, and Charles Noel), and the experimental sampling
syncopations of Jungle (especially the REINFORCED label) drew Kevin closer
to DJing and doing his own Techno, which he began to do in 1994 as
POWERHOUSE. 

By 1995 Kevin was heavily involved with the ele_mental ideal on various
levels, and has continued to be one of the most ardent supporters of that
ideal, which also helped him forge strong connections with Detroit's Dan
Bell and Illinois musician Dac Crowell.  More recently, Kevin has honed
his live performance skills at an ele_mental house party, at ))JOIN(( in
April of 1996, and at two events by Dayton's premier promotional group,
JUSTUS, raising his profile and allowing him to explore new ideas.  He has
also contributed a song to the upcoming TRACE ELEMENTS 2 vinyl ep for the
21/22 Corporation, and is releasing a vinyl ep through the Apparatus
sublabel of Derrick Thompson's Soiree Records from Detroit.

Tonight's performance will consist of all-new material which Kevin
describes simply as "nightmare music," exploring abstract Ambient
mood-pieces as well as driving Techno tracks. 

