Steven Wymer began his exploration of electronic music in 1986, as a
13-year old in Mansfield Ohio, discovering the fragmented and confusing
music of early SKINNY PUPPY.  He found this music disturbing and
compelling, but when all his tapes were stolen a few years later, he took
it as an omen of the music's subliminal danger, and instead turned to the
safer wallpaper electronic music of New Age "space music," especially the
softer tones of the Windham Hill label. 

He returned to harsher electronic sounds in 1992, while in the Army, where
he was influenced by the isolation of the remote area in Germany where he
was stationed.  He began to record music to cassettes, using whatever he
had available to make pure, undistilled noise.  At one point he dismantled
a barrack-mate's precious guitar (without permission) to discover its
sound possibilities.  He made his noise music knowing very little about
other developments in that field of music, and upon his return to Ohio, he
joined an old friend in the hope of starting a more serious endeavor,
called SPINE.

The band itself never materialized, but Steve continued to buy new
equipment and promote himself as SPINE, releasing several demo tapes and
eventually playing as the opening act for local
industrial/tribal/ambient/improvisers GAGA in January of 1997.  A further
performance at ele_mental's SNOW*DRIFT event in late February of 1997
opened his music into other areas, which has culminated in his
participation in tonight's (N): NITROGEN event.

Steve's musical approach for tonight's performance is intended to be
completely improvised and self-contained; a musical voyage of dynamic,
droning noise to keep listeners "on edge." 

