born on a military base in germany, kevin ginger spent his formative years
in northern indiana, only a few hours away from the home of house music,
chicago.  but it took his discovery of techno pop and industrial dance
music to get him into electronic music.  by 1992 kevin was introduced to
the rave phenomenon in chicago, opening up a vast area which he has
continued to explore to this day.  a move to columbus came shortly
thereafter, to attend the columbus college of art and design, where he
focused on ceramics and later, sculpture.  while he was learning how to
create objects from raw materials, he was also learning to make sound
objects in a similar way, starting by buying some basic gear.  encouraged
by the ele_mental philosophy of keeping things stripped-down and
experimental, kevin joined up with the ele_mentals in 1995 and has
continued to be one of its strongest supporters (in terms of performance
as well as logistics).  he has slowly made his way through the
difficulties of making electronic dance music, first under the name of
BLIP, and now VALENCE; settling on an eerie, spacious, and abstract form
of hard techno that is groove-friendly but never "safe."  at the same
time, kevin's sculpture career has taken off, with confident new work and
frequent gallery showings, which may culminate in the fall of 1998 with
his move to portland, oregon, to attend graduate school.  kevin is also
serious about starting a northwest chapter of the ele_mental concept,
which has already grown to 3 members.
