From eluna@bronze.coil.com Mon Feb 26 04:34:25 1996
Date: Mon, 26 Feb 1996 04:34:24 -0500 (EST)
From: eluna <eluna@bronze.coil.com>
Subject: TECHNO - Keyboard mag
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.90.960226033141.29829A-100000@bronze.coil.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Status: O
X-Status: 

from MUSIC TECHNOLOGY, March/April 1989
Simon Trask

TECHNO
Long after the Motown label deserted the city of Detroit, a new type of 
music is forging a relationship between soul and technology in the Motor 
City.

THE SCENE: DETROIT, murder capital of the USA, an industrial city left 
behind in a post-industrial society.  A recent New York Times article 
vividly refers to urban landscapes "marred by vacant factories, warehouses 
and great open spaces where such buildings once stood."  Despite drastic 
cuts in services the city was virtually bankrupt, and its mayor declared, 
"We are at the edge of an abyss."

Welcome to the world of Techno music, a world peopled by dreamers caught 
up in the despair of everyday Detroit life, yet glimpsing a brand new 
future in which technology functions as as savior rather than a 
destroyer.  They've read Alvin Toffler's _THE THIRD WAVE_ and realized 
_they're_ riding it.

Three of those riders are Juan Atkins, Derrick May, and Kevin 
Saunderson.  They represent a new generation of musicians who claim 
direct descendancy not from Motown, but from the music of Kraftwerk, 
Depeche Mode and Gary Numan.

"It seemed like music of the future to me," recalls Saunderson.  
"Kraftwerk had this really clean, computerized, futuristic sound.  Their 
music had a good groove, but at the same time it was deep and you could 
sit back and listen to it."

The biggest music in Detroit during the trio's formative years was 
Parliament/Funkadelic, and it was a shared liking for the Mothership 
Connection which first brought together the youthful Saunderson, Atkins, 
and May at Belleville High School in West Detroit.  It was May who 
likened Techno to "George Clinton and Kraftwerk stuck in an elevator with 
only a sequencer to keep them company."

Atkins first came to prominence in Cybotron, an early '80s techno/electro 
group which achieved some success but was eventually split by conflicting 
musical directions.  Since then he has worked as Model 500 (choosing the 
name because he "wanted to use something that repudiated an ethnic 
designation"), releasing on his own Metroplex label polished, minimalist, 
hi-tech dance-music gems with titles like "Future," "Time Space 
Transmat" and "Interference."  "My concept was that the Kraftwerks, 
Telexes and Devos were good but they weren't funky.  I felt that if I 
could take that type of music and add a funky element to it then it would 
be a smash."

Although worshipped, early technopop was never viewed as an end to 
itself.  Derrick May states, "English bands ten years ago hardly knew 
what they were doing.  They left us waiting.  Somebody like Gary Numan 
started something he never concluded."  Saunderson identifies a significant
difference between the music of the early '80s groups and that of techno 
musicians: "Techno has a better groove as far as the bass end goes, and 
it has a much rawer sound.  In fact, the bass end tends to make people 
associate Techno with House music, but really the two are very different."

Like many of today's most influential dance music producers and artists, 
all three began their musical careers as DJs - in Saunderson's case on 
college radio and in the underground clubs of Detroit.  He still plays 
the clubs, currently spinning a mix of Techno, House and Acid on Friday 
nights at Detroit's hottest underground club, The Music Institute, 
alongside Derrick May.

When Saunderson took the decision to start creating his own music instead 
of playing other people's ("I was always wanting to add things to other 
people's music, and I felt I had a good feeling for what people liked to 
hear"), the number one priority was to set up his own studio.  His mother 
helped him out financially, while Juan Atkins advised on equipment.  
Saunderson started out with a Yamaha DX100, Roland Juno 106, Fostex 
eight-channel mixer, Tascam eight-track recorder, several reverbs, and 
giant speakers that could handle 800 watts each - all set up in a 
two-bedroom apartment.  Hardly surprising was that he had to move four 
times in the first year.

"I tried to be courteous to people," he maintains, "but...I have to play 
my music loud.  That's the only way I can get a feeling for what I'm doing."

Examples of Saunderson's work includes "The Sound" and "Bounce Your Body 
to the Box" - stripped-down bass 'n' drum workouts which attempt to 
dissolve music into pure frequency and rhythm.  Saunderson creates a 
spacious rhythmic backdrop throught judicious use of reverb and a careful 
combination of splashy, clicky percussive sounds which float in and out 
of the mix.  Rich, booming bass sounds operate at virtually subsonic 
levels, strange synth sounds burble away, and any hint of a vocal line is 
reduced to a disjointed robotic incantation - all over a pounding, 
insistent bass-drum beat.  The effect is hypnotic and compulsive.

Saunderson's instrument arsenal now takes in a Roland S550, Casio CZ5000, 
Roland JX8P, Korg Poly 800, Roland TB 303 Bassline and Ensoniq Mirage.  
Drum-machine chores are taken care of by Roland's TR909, 808 and 727 
together with an Alesis HR16 ("one of the cleanest drum machines I've 
ever heard") and his own sampled sounds.

"I like to use a combination of 909 and HR16 hi-hats, together with the 
808 bass drum or sometimes the bass on the 909," he explains.  "Those 
drum machines have a real good feel, both together and on their own."

Atkins shares Saunderson's love for the old Roland machines: "I still use 
the 808 and 909.  The 808 has a real techno feel.  Everything on that 
drum machine has an electronic feel - it's not like digitally-sampled 
real drums."

Saunderson refuses to use sampled drum-machine sounds in place of the 
genuine article: "Sampling changes the sounds in some way.  I'll go into 
a studio and they'll say, 'We have the 808 right here, sampled on a 
disk,' but I won't use those samples 'cos somehow the results just don't 
have the same feel."

Instead he prefers an offbeat approach to obtaining percussive sounds 
which is in tune with the creative spirit of sampling - for instance, 
sampling a handclap or a piece of paper being crumpled, and playing 
around with the tuning to see what sorts of results he can get.  Extracts 
from old records _don't_ find their way into Saunderson's sampler.

"What's going to be the music of the future if people keep sampling all 
this stuff from the past?" he argues.  "I figure that the people who're 
gonna be real successful are those who keep looking ahead, who're going 
to set the trend.  Forget what's happened in the past.  It was good, but 
let's move on."

Atkins' Model 500 tracks are characterized by a clean sound and a 
contrapuntal interlay of musical lines - or "layered sequences."  It's an 
approach which he explains as the major influence of Kraftwerk on his 
music.  How, then, does he set about putting together a track?

"On 'Interference' I started with the bassline, 'cos the bassline is to 
me the most important thing in a dance record.  Even the drums become 
secondary to a good bassline.  I worked everything else around that.  A 
lot of times I let my basslines carry the melody.  You'll hear that the 
little tweaks and bits people can listen to are in the bassline."

Like Saunderson, Atkins is not interested in sampling old records.  He 
prefers to devote himself to the delights of synthesis, and in particular 
to "one" synth: "The Pro One is my heart.  I'll use that Pro One until it 
falls apart, and then I'll probably still use it if it makes any sounds.

"These new synthesizers now, I think they're scaling them more to 
interface with the consumer.  Synthesizers used to be synthesizers that a 
synthesist could play.  Now manufacturers are going for presets and they 
make it really hard to get beyond those presets to program your own sounds."

Techno strives to bring the future to present-day feet _and_ ears.  "I 
make my records in the hope that people will go and buy them to listen to 
as well as to dance to," Saunderson explains. "A good dance track is 
going to grab your attention, but on top of that I want somthing that's 
interesting and different enough to make you take notice of it.  It 
should be totally different from anything else that's happening, but not 
so different that it's beyond people so that you end up not interfacing 
with them.  Be right on the edge without going over.

"The music is not for everybody.  It's for certain people that want a 
little twist."

Atkins echoes the sentiment: "I want whatever I do to stand out, but not 
be so far above that people won't relate to it.  It doesn't really make 
sense to do music that people will get into in ten years or so.  I just 
want to be involved with things that are going to be interesting enough 
to set trends or standards."

