doug singleton 


"Of Peace, Love, and Rhythm"

Astericks surrounding text (ie. **pilgrimage** etc.)  is meant to be italics

-----------------------------------------------------

	As I sit feel the rhythm through me. Feel the beat and tempo converging 
in on me as if the first song I've come back to, seeing and happy, moved 
to swing myself private swan, movement haiku. No, that is too spiritual, 
too spacy. I feel the rhythm through me, that is all I do anymore, 
breathe and eat, think and sway, play some beat.
	Spinners have no need whatsoever for the album format, it being foreign 
to them, dead. The only use might be obscure cuts and beats but 
otherwise it is singles, twelve-inches, cuts they breathe through. This 
in itself is foreign for many to understand, sound culture with its own 
language and own hype, rarely in concordance with radio and eye video 
culture. Stars are spinners and vinyl, producers, vocals, sound and 
clubbers.
	My beloved, beats and rhythm. Words and music. Time and space. Peace 
and love. Sex and ecstasy. Dreams and work. Kiss and soul. Woman and man 
and man and woman (and woman).
	This **kulture** might be the only where people are free, are safe, 
loved by sound and transcending. Where there is no hate but harmony 
races, sexual, and class. I do not mean to dream utopia and say that 
people are not angry and petty, sexist, that there is not drug abuse, no 
eating of meat or something, no, but that within the arena there is 
upliftment, this is the **point**, to be taken away, higher common love. 
Rhythm and space. Time bends. Welcome to your shelter:
	Peace. Not world but the inner. The heaven on earth of soul.
	Love of thyself, and all around ye, you must.
	And my beloved, the art of rhythm ecstasy.

				  *

	I wait on Romero, his beats are all hardcore, trippy fast. It would be 
different if he were a kiddie raver but he is not, simply devoted happy 
hard. If it ain't speed it ain't me he say. Even my most rev it up 
techno too slow for him. It too slow he say. My breakbeat bore him. 
Sometimes I picture him ninety years old sitting listening to one long 
sterile tone, wicked smile upon his face, on further inspection this 
tone is crazy 300 bpm's so fast no one else even hears them, just one 
tone to us mortals while he shake his mind hard happy. He do that stand 
up fireman walk dance shit to himself like crazy tripping, always, but 
he don't taste for years, recovering. He is bored by our house, digging 
only when it can rev him up mucho more beatbeat faster faster. You are 
too beats/per obsessed I say to him, it does not matter---listen for 
your rhythm. I do he say, sometime listen to New Age. But you can't be 
Krush beats? I ask, disgusted. Hardcore head.
	Anyway I get him to go to this Detroit/Chicago thing with lights and 
crazy sound, a regular take your money fest, promising no Happy but he 
know some rave shit probably. Nia doesn't come.
	See, I am sitting there waiting for him and so am feeling these beats 
and thinking 'bout Stella getting her groove on. Or how I do. Feeling 
this love, my inner rhythm search. Toke up in preparation. My mate 
(room) come in and say, what up? Gonna see some dj's. Yeah? Yeah. Where? 
It cost bucks I say, knowing he don't have none and me not enough for 
him. Oh, he say. Where my Daft at? I ain't take it he say. Uh-huh, I 
say, pissed off. Guarding my sounds.
	But you see? Where's my peace? I live with the man but can be petty and 
hold tired hate. I know his soul cool but refuse to understand his lack 
of motivation, irresponsibility, flaccid ingenuity, differing outlook. 
Even when I know he feel the groove. I would not attempt to crash and 
topple his plateau but he pisses me off most times, grating on me. I sit 
here soaking my rhythm peace---but cannot love my roommate, the being 
closest to me. Where's my peace?
	Greg Tate say hip-hop is Buddha blessed and boo-ya blasted, 
say "hip hop is half black and half Japanese, not what it is today but 
what it could be tomorrow, is the perverse logic of capitalism pursued 
by an art form, is James Brown's pelvis digitally grinded into 
technomorphine, is reverse colonialism, beyond good and evil, beyond 
life and death, is digital chips on the shoulders of African lips, 
hip-hop flows right through ya. . . ."
	Yeah, but who care? Beat and flow that where it at. Who care about 
history, Elvis, post-modern whatever shit. Asses move, lyrics flow, 
heads pump.
	I try to remember how I got here: rapperdelight planetrock, WBMX 
Chicago house, Prince to punk, New Order and back, vinyl club life, for 
movement searches be. Trance build and move you---soul, jazz, thrash, 
float, hard beat, transcendence.
	love / peace /unity
feel know love and be
          (sounds familiar)
	these be a move as if culture.
	these feed as if a lover, drug, way of the way.
but I digress.

				  *

	It is already late when Romero comes finally ready for this gig. He 
want to know where Nia is, I don't know, she ain't goin or maybe she be 
there. I don't know. He brings some records and of course we must first 
swap our listening shit. Me---big beats and then some spooky trance. He 
don't like. He---some surprise surprise Belgian hardcore. Me dig a 
little but bored. So we head out to this thing South Side and by the 
time we find it and get in it is most definitely classic technohouse-ish 
and I feel guilty 'cause its tailored for me, my bag, not Romero's, but 
he gets into it 'cause motherfuckers always be about revving shit for 
the kids and it turn out to be a little enough for him, Romero, he 
disappear.
	My high is moving from me but I don't think about ingesting, do not 
step to replenish it. Try to smoke the music. Heads are up there 
surrounding the motherfuckin' dj, you can't even see him they spying so 
hard. I know some faces but crawl off alone to a corner, sit down, 
watching, waiting for that tempo high. Hours later I am raging. We wind 
up seeing Nia. It is a fine morning. But this is not the story I want to 
tell.

				   *

	There is a form of contemporary Japanese dance named Butoh, created in 
the aftermath of WWII. It is a reaction to the brutality and chaos of 
the war, to the horror and physical destruction brought upon Japan at 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Butoh attempts to express the modern Japanese 
consciousness resulting from the post-war period. Very expressionistic 
and beautiful, almost a hyper-conscious physical theater, avant-garde, 
powerful. An abandonment of form it conveys a very simple image of 
nature through expressionistic abstract art. Twist and slide, scream and 
dance.
	And once a friend of mine was so moved by Alvin Ailey's Dance Company 
that she glowed as if enlightened, crying. She found us to relate the 
experience as if she had seen the burning bush voice of God on a 
mountaintop. She talked of twisting bodies, rhythm and beauty. Of the 
deep secrets of rhythm and syncopated movements, of bodies upon one 
another expressing energy and sex and happiness and sadness. She was as 
if changed.
	Someone, Tribal Donut I think they are called, has said, paraphrased, 
". . . the rave experience when it's really happening, when the 'vibe' 
is all there provides an opening. The use of psychedelics gives one a 
spectacular but ultimately fleeting glimpse of certain states of 
heightened awareness and being. These states can be accessed again and 
again, but the more one relies on drugs alone the less those experiences 
have to offer in the way of actually changing one's life for the better. 
People confuse that moment of magic with the externals: the ecstasy 
rush, the immersion in the music and lights, etc. Going to more raves, 
listening to the same housey beats day and night, all in a desperate 
attempt to recreate that initial revelation. It's all a question of 
integration: of bringing the insights and potentialities gained 'under 
the influence' down into one's daily life for the better. If the spirit 
of raving dies out it will be due less to commercialization by outside 
parasites than to the fact that ravers themselves were too lazy and 
unimaginative to truly extend that spirit of love, energy, harmony and 
freeplay into other aspects of their lives."
	And Derrick May, "What does it say about the music that we have to do 
so many drugs to simulate the feeling of euphoria? I just don't 
understand why people can't be themselves. And how many of the guys 
playing records now could actually say he loves the music that he plays 
with a sort of heart and soul so when he plays he's bleeding inside? 
He's feeling totally as if he just made love to the music? Unfortunately 
most of these kids will never understand what the music was all about or 
what it could be about. So the kids take a pill to feel the funk and the 
DJ takes a pill to feel the funk. I don't take a pill to feel the funk. 
Carl don't take a pill to feel the funk. Glenn Underground don't take a 
pill to feel the funk. Derrick Carter might take a pill for fun, but not 
to feel the funk".
	And Christian Moby, "If you look at the way culture evolves, human 
beings are very uncomfortable with ambiguity and chaos. The early rave 
scene was very unstructured. There were no rules. It didn't really 
matter what you wore, and it didn't really matter what you listened to. 
Unfortunately, what always seems to happen in these situations is that 
people have to codify things. Rather than let matters exist on a sort of 
ambiguous level, human beings feel they have to impose  structure where 
there isn't one. People create these arbitrary mores and structures, and 
then they defend them as if they're dictates from God. I became really 
disenfranchised with the world of electronic dance music. Starting in 
the early eighties there was something about electronic culture that I 
found very foreign, exciting, and aesthetically really compelling. I had 
this sort of utopian vision of it as this place where people were open 
and celebratory. I thought it was a very non-judgmental situation. Then 
something changed and raves became just as dystopian as every other 
cultural scene."
	Old stories known and felt are these, but where is it exactly I am 
attempting to get? There must be somewhere I am trying to get to, step 
by step by moment.
				
				  *
	
	As I sit here---and I am still sitting here, I feel the dope (beats) 
going through me. I have slowed things down. There is only one type of 
music. The tempo and instruments change, mirroring temperaments and the 
passing of time, but there is only one music. Everyone knows this, they 
just don't know all of it. I am sitting here feeling my groove but it is 
a secret euphoria. I want to share it but with only a few, in controlled 
settings (my control, or those I trust). I want to get my groove on with 
space and time and with someone. Perhaps this will be Nia, there is no 
sure way of knowing. I want to love as if a shaman but not those who 
would hate, exploit, or hurt (how can one learn to love life, the world, 
or existence if you don't love those who might hate? even hate you?)
	I sit here with my withering ganja high, floating through my music 
euphoria haze, it keeps rising along with this song, at peace with this 
rhythm, and yet I cannot even love my roommate (sometimes I **dislike** 
him), diss a friend's speedy music, am somewhat oblivious to my female 
companion. It is not easy, Life, not because of the things I say here 
but generally not so. Perhaps that is why I like this rhythm---it rises 
above and through me.
	My substance high has gone and I do not refill it. I am still sitting 
here and other rhythms go through me. Who am I? I am a beat and a song 
and a melody. I am sounds remembered: old songs, bits of movie dialog, 
industrial work-site crashes, tribal chanting, beeps, spiraling horns, 
someone crooning. I am history. I am straight and gay and man and woman. 
I am soul and disco and white rock and ragtime. I am death and war and 
life. I cry and sing and dance. I am raped, and rape. I am dead. Am yet 
born. I am artforums. I am nigger (a **Nigga**). I love and hate and 
shit and breathe, smell flowers, float through skies, move older, grow 
younger. I am hope. sound cultures.

